+++
title = "Skywire: The Next Internet"
tags = [
    "Skywire",
]
bounty = 5
date = "2017-11-07"
categories = [
    "Skywire",
]
+++

![Skywire logo](/img/skywire-the-next-internet.png)

In spring 2017, the FCC made a proposal in which internet service providers can
collect, use, and sell information about customer browsing habits. ISPs can do
this without permission. Customers can’t opt out. Being a customer of one of
these corporations means that you’re paying to be tracked, plain and simple.

With customer tracking, unreliable coverage, high rates, long hold times and
poor customer service, ISPs have become some of the most hated companies in
America. So why do customers pay these companies bill after bill for the
privilege of being exploited?

The answer is sad, but not surprising: users feel trapped. There seems to be no
other choice. ISPs have monopolistic powers, including the ability to charge
customers exorbitant prices for poor service. With net neutrality regulations
under threat going into 2018, the situation will only get worse.

That’s why we built Skywire: the next internet. Skywire takes control from ISPs
and puts it back into the hands of users where it belongs. With Skywire, there
are no huge bills and unfair business practices. It’s a self-sufficient
network, 100% owned and maintained by the user community.

How does Skywire work? Think of it as a decentralized internet service
provider. Skywire uses blockchain technology to create a peer-to-peer
community-driven market for internet service. It’s fast, private, and secure.
Best of all, it puts the user first.

With Skywire, you benefit directly from your contributions to the network.
Users can earn coins for running hardware nodes and providing bandwidth and
storage. You can then spend your coins by consuming media or other network
resources. This system makes Skywire self-sustaining and independent: the more
you use it, the more robust the network becomes. Skywire is an incentivized
mesh network.

Skywire is built for users, by users. Unlike networks under corporate ISPs,
decisions on Skywire are made by the community. Nodes function based on a
web-of-trust system. Malicious nodes can be cut off by collective agreement,
and trustworthy nodes strengthened. Web-of-trust consensus makes Skywire immune
to attacks, exploitation, and manipulation. It creates a system where everyone
has a say.

Skywire is faster and more secure than other internet alternatives. It’s
encrypted and private, which means that you can’t be tracked as you browse. It
doesn’t suffer from throttling and other service outages that you get with
large ISPs. Instead of paying $150 per month to be tracked by the telecom
monopoly, Skywire users get internet service that protects their privacy.

We need Skywire now more than ever. The FCC’s failure to promote net neutrality
means that large ISPs will continue to tighten their grip until they achieve a
stranglehold over internet experience. Fees will rise. Throttling, censorship,
and manipulation could become the norm. Users will have less power than they’ve
ever had as their browsing data, privacy, and individuality is bought and sold
by corporations looking for a profit.

It’s up to us to regain control. Skywire will protect net neutrality at the
hardware level, by taking control of network hardware from the ISPs and putting
it the hands of the community. Its peer-to-peer network proves that we don’t
have rely on corporate ISPs. Together, we can reinvent the internet with
Skywire: a user-powered network that’s free and open to all.
